# SDK Patch Tool How To

The following is generated by running `Get-Help SDKPatch.ps1 -detailed`. **DO NOT EDIT THIS MANUALLY, ENSURE THE SCRIPT IS WELL DOCUMENTED, AND JUST COPY THE OUTPUT FROM THE COMMAND**

## SDKPatch.ps1 detailed description
    
SYNOPSIS
    Downloads an SDK version and replaces the the NuGet files as part of that SDK with the here specified ones.
    
    
SYNTAX
    E:\NuGet\Entropy\SDKPatch.ps1 [-SDKPath] <String> [-NupkgsPath] <String> [-SDKChannel] <String> [[-Quality] <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
    
    
DESCRIPTION
    

PARAMETERS
    -SDKPath <String>
        The path where the patched SDK will be installed. It will be created it if doesn't exist.
        
    -NupkgsPath <String>
        The nupkgs folder which contains the latest nupkgs.
        
    -SDKChannel <String>
        Channel name of SDK. Please refer to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-install-script#options. 
        Two-part version in A.B format, representing a specific release (for example, 6.0 or 7.0). 
        Three-part version in A.B.Cxx format, representing a specific SDK release (for example, 5.0.1xx or 5.0.2xx). Available since the 5.0 release.

    -Quality <String>
        The build quality. Works in conjunction with the channel. Likely options: `daily`, `preview` or `GA`, which represents daily, monthly and General Availability release respectively.
        Please refer to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-install-script#options.

    <CommonParameters>
        This cmdlet supports the common parameters: Verbose, Debug,
        ErrorAction, ErrorVariable, WarningAction, WarningVariable,
        OutBuffer, PipelineVariable, and OutVariable. For more information, see
        about_CommonParameters (https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

    -------------------------- EXAMPLE 1 --------------------------

    PS C:\>.\SDKPatch.ps1 -SDKPath E:\SDK -NupkgsPath E:\NuGet\NuGet.Client\artifacts\nupkgs -SDKChannel 8.0.2xx -Quality daily

    Use this to download the latest private build of a release, if any.




    -------------------------- EXAMPLE 2 --------------------------

    PS C:\>.\SDKPatch.ps1 -SDKPath E:\SDK -NupkgsPath E:\NuGet\NuGet.Client\artifacts\nupkgs -SDKChannel 8.0.2xx -Quality preview

    Use this to download the latest public preview of a release, if any.




    -------------------------- EXAMPLE 3 --------------------------

    PS C:\>.\SDKPatch.ps1 -SDKPath E:\SDK -NupkgsPath E:\NuGet\NuGet.Client\artifacts\nupkgs -SDKChannel 8.0.2xx

    Use this to download the latest GA version of a release, if any.

## Steps

1. [Determine the best SDK version to use](#determining-the-sdk-channel-to-use) This requires specifying the channel and the quality.
1.Go to the SDKPatchTool folder
1.Run .\SDKPatch.ps1 -SDKPath <sdk path> -NupkgsPath <nupks path> -Channel <Channel Id> -Quality <quality>
1.If you see "Finish patching", you may start testing the patched dotnet now, with absolute path
  If you see "Patching failed", you have to check why the patching is failed.

**Special consideration:**

- If any of the tests fail with `daily` SDK quality, when filling an issue, it might be helpful to run the tests with `preview` quality for the same release, or a `GA` version of the previous release.

## Determining the SDK channel to use

Each NuGet release has 1-to-1 mapping with .NET SDK.
NuGet follows the Visual Studio versioning, while the .NET SDK increases a major version each November, and releases a new minor release with each Visual Studio release in non-November releases.

To know what the appropriate mapping between release NuGet and SDK versions is you can refer to NuGet/SDK mapping in the NuGet the release notes. Example: <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/release-notes/nuget-6.8>
Each November release, the channel needs to be increment. For November 2023, the best SDK version is 8.0.1xx, for November 2024, the best SDK version will be 9.0.1xx.

Follow the below pattern to best determine the version.

| NuGet Version | SDK Version | Release Timeline |
|---------------|-------------|
| 6.8 |  8.0.1xx | November 2023 |
| 6.9 | 8.0.2xx | February 204 |
| 6.10 | 8.0.3xx | TBD |
| ??? | 9.0.1xx | November 2024 |

All that said, here are some examples based on the NuGet release and time of testing.

| NuGet Version | When | Channel | Quality | Why |
|---------------|------|---------|---------|-----|
| 6.8.100 |October 2023 | 8.0.1xx | daily | We're testing the latest 8.0.100 before the release in November 2023 |
| 6.9.100 | January 2024 | 8.0.2xx | daily | We're testing the latest 8.0.2xx, before the February 2024 release |
| 6.10.5 | January 2024 | 8.0.3xx | daily | We're testing the latest 8.0.3xx, before the release sometime in 2024 |
| X.Y.Z | September 2024 | 9.0.1xx | daily | We're testing the latest 9.0.1xx, before the release in November 2024 |

